# Fermium

A simple CRM system in Node

### Getting Started

Running the application locally is quite simple with following steps.

1. Clone the repository.
  ```bash
  $ git clone git@github.com:chauhankiran/fermium.git
  ```
2. Go inside the cloned repository or folder.
  ```bash
  $ cd fermium
  ```
3. Install the dependencies.
  ```bash
  $ npm i
  ```
4. Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env`.
  ```bash
  $ mv .env.example .env
  ```
5. Fill the appropriate values in `.env` files. For `COOKIE_SECRET` and `SESSION_SECRET`, add random string value with at least 64 characters long. Add same random string to both `COOKIE_SECRET` and `SESSION_SECRET`.
6. Run the database migration.
  ```bash
  $ npx sequelize db:migrate
  ```
7. Run the seeders to fill the required data with proper setup. (Seeder will also create a demo user for you. Email and password will be consoled log. You need to copy that credentials as it'll not be displayed again).
  ```bash
  $ npx sequelize-cli db:seed:all
  ```
8. Start the application.
  ```bash
  $ npm start
  ```
9. If everything goes fine, you should have the running application at http://localhost:3000. Go ahead and login with account created by seeder (or you can create one from Register page) and explore the application! Happy hacking!

### Tech Stack

The tech stack for the Fermium is boring. 

On the back-end side, we're using Node with JavaScript and SQLite3 as development database. [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/) ORM has been used to work with database. On the front-end side, we're NOT using any front-end framework than [Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) template engine with jQuery and custom-made styles.

Apart from these, we're using few popular packages such as [Express](http://expressjs.com/) as base framework, [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) to manage the secrets, [Passport](https://www.passportjs.org) and passport local for the authentication, and so on.

### Folder Structure

The folder structure is intentionally simple and usual for collaboration.

| folder      | description |
|-------------|-------------|
| config      | Configuration files of the application. |
| controllers | "C" of MVC. Business logic resides currently here. |
| middleware  | A collection of files used as middleware. |
| migrations  | Migration scripts for the application generated by Sequelize. |
| models      | "M" of MVC. Created by Sequelize migration script with minor alteration. |
| public      | A folder the holds public assets such as `.css`, `.js` files. |
| routes      | Routes files of the application. One file per module. |
| utils       | A place where application wide helper or utilities functions are defined. |
| views       | "V" of MVC. Nunjucks templates in folder per modules. |

### License

Copyright (c) 2022 Kiran Chauhan <kiranchauhan@duck.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
